infra/README.md, before:

# Nixpkgs Security Tracker infrastructure

This directory contains the infrastructure configuration for the Nixpkgs Security Tracker.
This includes both the NixOS configuration as well as the Terraform/OpenTofu files to spin up the resources.

## Hetzner Cloud

The infrastructure currently resides in [Hetzner Cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud/), under the `nixpkgs-security-tracker` project.
To request access to the project on Hetzner Cloud, contact the [NixOS infrastructure team](https://nixos.org/community/teams/infrastructure/).
Besides the infrastructure team, @erethon also has access, but can't add users to the project.

## Terraform/OpenTofu

OpenTofu is used to spin up the VM infrastructure.
Its state is stored in Hetzner's Object Storage service.

Running `nix shell` in this directory will drop you in a shell with OpenTofu available.
To quickly get information on the committed state run `tofu show`.
For more instructions on how to use OpenTofu refer to the [upstream documentation](https://opentofu.org/docs/).

## NixOS hosts

Since Hetzner Cloud doesn't support NixOS out of the box, the VM was initially spawned as a Debian host and then it was converted to NixOS as per the [provisioning NixOS via SSH tutorial](https://nix.dev/tutorials/nixos/provisioning-remote-machines).
If in the future we need to create more VMs and do it in a declarative way, we can use [nixos-anywhere](https://github.com/nix-community/nixos-anywhere).

## Secrets

Secrets are managed using [Agenix](https://github.com/ryantm/agenix).
Agenix decrypts secrets on the host by using its [OpenSSH host keys](https://github.com/ryantm/agenix#ageidentitypaths).
Reading the [Agenix tutorial](https://github.com/ryantm/agenix#tutorial) is recommended.

### Managing secrets

To add or edit a secret, you don't need to have access to the private keys.
You only have to make sure that the file for the secret you want to edit doesn't exist, (i.e. delete `secrets/name_of_secret.age` if it already exists) and then run `agenix -e secrets/name_of_secret.age` from the directory that `secrets.nix` is in.
Then commit `secrets/name_of_secret.age` as usual.

## Metrics

A [Prometheus Node Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) is running exposing host specfic metrics. These are scraped by the nixos.org [Prometheus](https://prometheus.nixos.org/graph) and are also available under [Grafana](https://grafana.nixos.org/d/rYdddlPWk/node-exporter-full?orgId=1&from=now-24h&to=now&timezone=browser&var-datasource=default&var-job=node&var-node=tracker.security.nixos.org:9100&var-diskdevices=%5Ba-z%5D%2B%7Cnvme%5B0-9%5D%2Bn%5B0-9%5D%2B%7Cmmcblk%5B0-9%5D%2B&refresh=1m).

Moreover, a [Postgres Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/postgres_exporter) and a [SQL exporter](https://github.com/justwatchcom/sql_exporter) run in the host exposing Postgres and application specific metrics. A dashboard for these metrics is [here](https://grafana.nixos.org/d/beo2uotj65lvkb/nix-security-tracker?orgId=1&from=now-6h&to=now&timezone=browser&var-Instance=tracker.security.nixos.org:9237).

Commit message:

feat: Deploy to staging by default on merge
Deploying to production now requires a merge on the `production` branch.

infra/README.md, after:

# Nixpkgs Security Tracker infrastructure

This directory contains the infrastructure configuration for the Nixpkgs Security Tracker.
This includes both the NixOS configuration as well as the Terraform/OpenTofu files to spin up the resources.

## Hetzner Cloud

The infrastructure currently resides in [Hetzner Cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud/), under the `nixpkgs-security-tracker` project.
To request access to the project on Hetzner Cloud, contact the [NixOS infrastructure team](https://nixos.org/community/teams/infrastructure/).
Besides the infrastructure team, @erethon also has access, but can't add users to the project.

## Terraform/OpenTofu

OpenTofu is used to spin up the VM infrastructure.
Its state is stored in Hetzner's Object Storage service.

Running `nix shell` in this directory will drop you in a shell with OpenTofu available.
To quickly get information on the committed state run `tofu show`.
For more instructions on how to use OpenTofu refer to the [upstream documentation](https://opentofu.org/docs/).

## NixOS hosts

Since Hetzner Cloud doesn't support NixOS out of the box, the VM was initially spawned as a Debian host and then it was converted to NixOS as per the [provisioning NixOS via SSH tutorial](https://nix.dev/tutorials/nixos/provisioning-remote-machines).
If in the future we need to create more VMs and do it in a declarative way, we can use [nixos-anywhere](https://github.com/nix-community/nixos-anywhere).

## Deploying the Security Tracker

Deployments happen automatically via GitHub Actions. Whenever something is merged on a the `main` branch, a GitHub Action runs that updates the staging deployment of the tracker (staging-tracker.security.nixos.org).
Similarly, merges on the `production` branch get automatically applied to tracker.security.nixos.org.

## Secrets

Secrets are managed using [Agenix](https://github.com/ryantm/agenix).
Agenix decrypts secrets on the host by using its [OpenSSH host keys](https://github.com/ryantm/agenix#ageidentitypaths).
Reading the [Agenix tutorial](https://github.com/ryantm/agenix#tutorial) is recommended.

### Managing secrets

To add or edit a secret, you don't need to have access to the private keys.
You only have to make sure that the file for the secret you want to edit doesn't exist, (i.e. delete `secrets/name_of_secret.age` if it already exists) and then run `agenix -e secrets/name_of_secret.age` from the directory that `secrets.nix` is in.
Then commit `secrets/name_of_secret.age` as usual.

## Metrics

A [Prometheus Node Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) is running exposing host specfic metrics. These are scraped by the nixos.org [Prometheus](https://prometheus.nixos.org/graph) and are also available under [Grafana](https://grafana.nixos.org/d/rYdddlPWk/node-exporter-full?orgId=1&from=now-24h&to=now&timezone=browser&var-datasource=default&var-job=node&var-node=tracker.security.nixos.org:9100&var-diskdevices=%5Ba-z%5D%2B%7Cnvme%5B0-9%5D%2Bn%5B0-9%5D%2B%7Cmmcblk%5B0-9%5D%2B&refresh=1m).

Moreover, a [Postgres Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/postgres_exporter) and a [SQL exporter](https://github.com/justwatchcom/sql_exporter) run in the host exposing Postgres and application specific metrics. A dashboard for these metrics is [here](https://grafana.nixos.org/d/beo2uotj65lvkb/nix-security-tracker?orgId=1&from=now-6h&to=now&timezone=browser&var-Instance=tracker.security.nixos.org:9237).
